


	
Table of Contents
I. Executive Summary	2
Overveiw 


II. Audience Analysis	.2
Target Audience 
Situation Analysis 
Unique Value Proposition

	
III. Marketing Strategies	3
Budget 
Marketing Segmentations
Marketing Materials
Digital Strategies
Social Media Strategies
Earned Media
Guerilla Marketing 
Potential Partners
Distribution Plan
Pricing and Positioning 


IV. Appendix	9
Milestones
Break-Even Analysis
Next Steps


Introduction	
An effective marketing plan will help you answer key questions about your film, and act as a reference document to aid you in the execution of a strong marketing and distribution strategy, rooted in best practices to achieve your long term goals.
Thinking through your marketing approach is particularly important as the independent film industry continues to evolve. Independent filmmakers are tasked with creating an entertaining and impactful film that has the power to influence society through meaningful stories. In addition to this, filmmakers must also develop an innovative advertising and publicity approach. It’s worth keeping in mind that even with a strong digital distribution deal filmmakers are often responsible for the development and implementation of a marketing plan on their own.1
Executive Summary
Provide a concise but positive description of your film, including goals and objectives. What is the purpose of your film and what are you trying to achieve? 
For example, summarize what you intend to do, how and when you intend to do it, and how you think you can overcome major obstacles (such as competition).

What are your goals and overview for marketing your film? Who do you want to reach and how can you do it?


Note: Write this overview last so that you can summarize the most important points from your marketing plan.

Audience Analysis
Give a positive, concise, and fact-based description of your film: what it does, and what is going to make it unique, competitive and successful. Describe who the audience will be for this film. 

Target Audience 
This will be filled in based on the information entered into Andromeda, built on data analytics. It is vital to know as much about your potential customers as possible —who they are, what they want (and don’t want), and expectations they may have.

Target Audience:

Customer Number, Type, Value Drivers, Decision Process 



Situation Analysis
List the following to insure that important details about where you are now are brought to light.

What is the main focus of your film?

What are the strengths of your film?

What aspects of your film need improvement?

What are the strengths of your team?

What aspects of your team need improvement? 

What films or forms of entertainment are your current competitors?

Briefly describe several of your most relevant competitors, either films or forms of entertainment. What percentage of the market does each reach?  What are their strengths and weaknesses? 

What can you learn from the way they do business  and from their general marketing approaches?

How do you expect to compete and do better?

Unique Value Proposition 
Describe any special features of your film that you feel give you a competitive edge and differentiate you from your competitors. (Examples include special effects, in-depth interviews, etc.)

Marketing Strategies 
How well you market your film can play an important role in its success or failure. It is vital to know your marketing goals. These can include to reach a certain number of individuals, to increase engagement in an issue, or to influence a certain group or way of thinking. 

What are your marketing goals? 

Budget
Below are break downs of spending costs on media. Experts suggest that films allocate at least 10% of their total cost to their marketing budget, if not more.
How much money can you afford to spend on marketing? 

What are the projected revenues of the film?

[KK[1]




Market Segmentation [KK[2]
Is your target market segmented? 

Are there different levels within the same type of viewers, each offering a difference in quality, price, or range of viewers?

Is this market segmentation governed by geographic area, product lines, pricing, or other criteria?

Into which market segment will your primary viewers fall?

What percentage of the total market is this segment? 

What percentage of this segment will your film reach?


Marketing Materials 
What is needed to market your film? For example, cards, posters, merchandise, etc.

What tools or partners can help you reach your marketing goals?

Digital Strategies 
Digital Strategies are how you can use online media to help advertise your film. Examples of this would be search engine optimization, digital posters and commercials, creating an online game, and more. 

What are your goals for engagement? 

What platforms do you want to digitally market on? 

What forms of digital media are you planning to create? For example, a website or a Clips and posters. 

What is your timeline?

What is your budget?

How will you track your success? (Example: Tracking the visitors to your websites daily, weekly, monthly)

Social Media Strategies 
Social media are “websites and applications that enable users to create and share content or to participate in social networking.”3 Examples of this would be platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, an interactive website, and more.

What are your goals for engagement? 

How do you intend to advertise your film on social media?

What platforms of social media do you plan to use? For example, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, etc. 

What is your timeline of advertising? Will you advertise on a regular basis or will you be conducting seasonal campaigns?

What is your budget?

How will you track your success? (Example: Measure the increase in Facebook page or other social media followers after major events, interviews, trailer release, etc.)

Earned Media
Earned media is how you get your viewers and audience to engage with your media. This is how people view and share your content. Examples of this would be shares, retweets, likes, etc.

What are your goals for engagement? 

How can you earn the publicity from fans and reach new potential movie viewers? 

What is your timeline?

What is your budget?

How will you track your success? (Example: Count the number of positive tweets with your hashtag daily, weekly, or monthly)
 
Guerrilla Marketing
Guerrilla tactics are ways to advertise that cost little to no money. Ideas of these tactics include: street art such as side walk chalk or stencil power washing film print ads on the sidewalk, QR codes that lead to links, Augmented Reality encouraging people to interact through devices such as their phones, mini commercials, projection mapping on walls, competitions that involve engagements like treasure hunts or appealing ads people can interact with such as fun pictures in mirrors. 
Some of the top guerrilla marketing tactics include:4
* Organizing impromptu public events
* Creating social media controversy
* Give away free items
* Integrate yourself into communities
* “Shock the public”
What are your goals for engagement? 

What would work best and most cost effective for your film? 

What can you afford or spend the time on? 

What is your timeline?

What is your budget?

How will you track your success? (Example: number of photos shared of your guerilla artwork, number of participants in treasure hunts, etc.)

Partners 
Are there any partnerships to utilize for marketing? For example, non-profits, local schools, community organizations, businesses, venues, blogging or online communities, etc.

Distribution Plan 
The distribution plan details what channels will distribute your films to audiences. The best options for you will be given based on your inputs to Andromeda. 

 Appendix

Milestones
This is a list of objectives that your film may be striving to reach, by start and completion dates, and by budget. 
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
Break-Even Analysis
Use this section to evaluate your film’s profitability. A break-even analysis can tell you what number of tickets you would need to sell in order to generate a profit.
You can measure how close you are to achieving that break-even point when your expenses are covered by the amount of your sales and are on the brink of profitability.
There are three basic ways to increase the profits of your film: generate more ticket sales, raise prices, and/or lower any costs if possible. All can impact a film’s profitability:  if you raise prices, you may no longer be competitive; if you generate more ticket sales, you may need added venue time to show your film which would increase your costs. Lowering the fixed costs you must pay each month will have a greater impact on the profit margin than changing variable costs.
Fixed costs: Filming, insurance, salaries, etc.
Variable costs: The cost at which you buy products, supplies, etc.
Contribution Margin: This is the selling price minus the variable costs. It measures the dollars available to pay the fixed costs and make a profit.
Contribution Margin Ratio: This is the amount of total sales minus the variable costs, divided by the total sales. It measures the percentage of each sales dollar to pay fixed costs and make a profit.
Break-even Point: This is the amount when the total sales equals the total expenses. It represents the minimum sales dollar you need to reach before you make a profit.
Break-even Point in Units: This is the total of fixed costs divided by the ticket selling price minus the variable costs per ticket. It tells you how many tickets you need to sell before you make a profit.
Break-even Point in Dollars: This is the total amount of fixed costs divided by the contribution margin ratio. It is a method of calculating the minimum sales dollar to reach before you make a profit.
Next Steps
What’s Next?











Sources: 
1. http://www.moviemaker.com/archives/spring-2014/the-no-budget-marketing-attack-plan-campaign-your-indie-on-the-cheap/
2. http://www.shericandler.com/2013/04/15/minimum-marketing-spend/
http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/social-media3. 
4. http://www.viralblog.com/guerrilla-marketing/top-five-guerrilla-marketing-tactics-of-2013/
[KK[1]To change to 10% marketing for A
[KK[2]Talk to other BAH team who is working on Marketing Segmentation for Sundance – they may be able to add input
           

           BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON

           

           
           
           
           STRATEGIC MARKETING TEMPLATE – BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON	8

